[Music]
you yeah you you ever dreamt of
traveling through time would you go to
the future or to the past rudolph fence
didn't choose the time he simply found
himself in Times Square
hardly recognizing anything people in
unusual clothes strange noisy machines
he'd never seen before
lights everywhere what happened it was
in the summer of 1951 at about 11:15
passers-by in Times Square noticed a
young man in his 20s he was dressed in
the fashion of the late 19th century he
looked lost and clueless and obviously
had no idea how he'd gotten to the
crossroad where did he come from nobody
saw it he just appeared in that spot as
if out of thin air when he finally
started walking he was struck by a car
he was badly injured and didn't survive
later his clothes were searched and the
following things were found in his
pockets
a copper token for beverages worth 5
cents it had the name of a restaurant
which the locals didn't recognize a bill
for the care of a horse and a carriage
wash it was issued by a horse stable on
Lexington Avenue
there was no horse stable there at that
time old banknotes were $70 business
cards with the name Rudolph fence and an
address on Fifth Avenue a letter sent to
this man at the same address from the
business cards in June 1876 in
Philadelphia all these things looked
brand new not like they've been around
for 75 years the case was given to
captain Hubert V rim of the missing
persons Department of NYPD he found the
address on the business card but there
was a commercial firm there whose owners
had never heard of Rudolph fence fences
name also wasn't mentioned in the
address book his fingerprints weren't
found in any records and nobody had
reported a missing person to the police
with this name or having a similar
description
the man have false documents with him
was it just a prank that ended badly rim
continuing his investigation and finally
found rudolph fence jr in a telephone
book from 1939 rim questioned the
residents who lived at the listed
address and managed to learn that
rudolph fence did live here once and
work nearby having retired in 1940 he'd
moved away
the policeman found the widow of rudolph
fence jr in florida she lost him five
years earlier she said that her
father-in-law rudolf fence senior went
missing in 1876 at the age of 29 years
he just went out for an evening stroll
and nobody ever saw him again
searches gave no results rim looked
through the widow's albums and found
fences picture there you guessed it the
man in the picture looked identical to
the stranger from Times Square the whole
story looked weird
and Captain Rim failed to find any
explanation for it that would make sense
he decided not to mention these details
in the official reports and read all
fences case was never solved interests
for this story grew again after 1972
when it was mentioned in books and
articles related to this subject as
proof of traveling through time in 2000
a Spanish magazine
Messala published a six-page article
devoted to the incident the author of
the article was Carlos Canalis by that
time he'd written two books studying
paranormal events in folklore another
researcher of folklore Chris avec was
really interested in the article and
conducted his own investigation he
studied the magazines of that time and
found similar stories passing from one
country to another from Sweden to Norway
Italy Spain and France but he also
noticed that there was never any proof
or solid facts mentioned and the details
were different
sometimes even contradictory in
different countries later he came to the
conclusion that the legend started from
the article about fence in a June issue
of Journal of border
and research in 1972 which depicted the
story as a true one the journal had a
questionable reputation and its target
audience was mostly UFO and paranormal
event fans it in its term referred to
Ralph Holland's book a voice from the
gallery from 1952 all Beck believed that
this actually gave birth to the urban
legend after our Beck publicized the
results of his investigation in the
Akron Beacon Journal he was addressed by
science fiction fan George Murphy he
explained that the original source of
the legend was actually even older
as a result they found out that the
legend was inspired by a short story
written by Jack Finney in 1950 and first
published under the title I'm scared
in 1951 in 1952 it was included in the
anthology of science fiction writing
tomorrow the Stars the plot of the short
story is identical to what became the
urban legend later the narrator of this
story is captain Hubert rim since that
time the story of Rudolf fense
became one of the most popular urban
legends of the 70s and was repeated many
times later the spread of the Internet
in the 90s gave another life to it it
started being mentioned again as fact
and proof of the existence of Time
Traveler's it's a great example of how
urban legends come into being
people love unusual stories and are
eager to believe in them it's always
been like that but the progress of
technology made it much easier for
rumors and unproved facts to circulate
on the internet among thousands of
people another example of how urban
legends appeared is the radio play based
on Orson Welles War of the Worlds
in 1938 before Halloween radio networks
CBS aired the play in the book the
action takes place in London at the end
of the nineteenth century but the actors
of mercury theatre decided to transfer
the setting to New Jersey 1939 in fact
they enacted a Martian invasion
earth one of the actors announced the
beginning of the radio play after that
there was a weather forecast and then a
concert soon the music was interrupted
by urgent news that strange flashes were
observed on Mars after that Orson Welles
himself made a report as a renowned
professor from Princeton Richard Pierson
he said that life on the red planet was
impossible the concert continued but
soon it was again interrupted by an
urgent newscast a CBS reporter
broadcasted a play-by-play about the
landing of a metallic cylinder in
Grover's mill of Mercer County soon a
huge war machine escaped the cylinder
and started burning everything to ashes
with heat rays the reporter and other
Gawker's turned their backs on the
invaders and the broadcast stopped Cole
professor Pierson got in touch with the
radio and talked about the technical
level of the Martians after that the
head of the National Guard announced a
defense emergency in the Mercer and
Middlesex counties and sent four units
of New Jersey National Guard to evacuate
civilians the earthly weapons failed to
stand against the aliens new machines
kept landing and destroying everything
and everyone around them dozens of
people were running away from the
invaders the Secretary of State for Home
Affairs whose name wasn't mentioned
addressed the nation the radio network
forbid anyone portraying President
Roosevelt but the actor spoke in a very
similar voice all the same soon another
reporter got in touch he was
broadcasting from the cannon unit that
was attacking the Martians the aliens
used toxic gases and the local report
went dead again
it wasn't until forty minutes after the
beginning of the show that the speaker
reminded everyone that the described
events were just a fantasy
after that professor Pierson told the
audience about the end of the alien
attack they couldn't survive on earth
because they had no immunity for the
local illnesses at the end of the hour
Welles introduced himself
as newspapers wrote later six million
people listen to the play and most of
them took it all in good faith but many
of them either hadn't heard the
notification about the play or forgot
about it after the concert began Mercury
Theater on air had no sponsors at that
time and the play wasn't interrupted by
ads by the 40th minute of the show when
the speaker reminded everyone that it
was a show many people had already
stopped listening to the radio they were
gathering things to move to the west or
barricade it in the basements of their
homes
there were even cases of people coming
to police departments ready to help the
officers defend the nation against the
aliens telephone lines were 5 times
busier than usual the traffic jams from
new york trenton and philadelphia were
almost 60 miles long new york police got
more than two thousand calls for 15
minutes and the New Jersey National
Guard was mobilized some people claimed
that they'd seen the flashing lights and
smelled the odor from the toxic gases
the audio play was broadcast on the west
coast - at the climatic moment the power
station went out in concrete Washington
the listeners thought that it had been
destroyed by the aliens many of them
brought legal action against the radio
stations all of them were rejected but
Welles insisted on paying compensation
to the man who ruined his new shoes
running from the Martians oh gosh how
about you do you know any other urban
legends that people take for real facts
let me know down in the comments hey if
you learned something new today then
give this video a like and share with a
friend but hey don't go escaping those
crazy fake aliens just yet we have over
2,000 cool videos for you to check out
just click on this left or right video
and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life